please welcome to the stage Robbie '
Conor GM of Amia at
notion I'd like to kick off this
morning's conversation by talking about
something that I think everybody in this
room has and that's a builder's mindset
this is something that I've scanned for
a lot when helping to build our teams
during my career and it's been hard to
ascertain whether a builder's mindset is
natural whether someone is born with a
builder's mindset or whether it's
something that's thought where you can
train people to have that Builder's
mindset now I'm Irish as you as I called
out earlier on and there's probably a
lot of cliches that you would think
about Irish people one of them is
probably that you come from a very large
family terrible cliche but happens to be
absolutely correct in my regard I'm
actually the youngest of six children so
I've got five siblings and the
interesting thing about being in a large
family is it's a lot like a startup the
Dynamics of being the youngest of six
siblings is quite similar in Dynamics to
having a large family negotiation is
crucial resilience is really important
there's a high level of collaboration
that's needed all the time we were a
relatively middle class family but
Resources with six kids are always a
little bit scant you have to really
fight for your resourcing you got to
have a loud voice in a very competitive
environment but what I learned is that
with a lot of older siblings there I
also got to watch how they did things
before and learn from some of the great
progress that they made and some of the
mistakes that they made as well as I was
navigating my life life as well I think
it's very similar to startups and to
scale-ups and to organizations within
larger teams you get to observe from
those who've come before you and take
learnings from that and
progress notion loves Lego this why we
have this up here in many senses he's
its product as being a digital version
of Lego it's got a lot of building
blocks and I know many Founders here and
early stage team members in this group
are building their teams you're building
your processes you're building your
product you're building your goto Market
approach you're building your team
and so we always like to use the
Paradigm of Lego to to underline the way
that notion operates as well and so I
thought it' be a good idea just to share
with you some examples of what I've
learned in my career across the Paradigm
of building which I think would be
useful
today so let's talk a little bit about
my journey I didn't really want to work
in Tech as a career when I was going to
University I actually wanted to work in
the EU I trained to be a European
Diplomat I studied political science and
I studied French with a view to having a
job in Belgium but like many people as I
got closer to the end of my degree I
realized that's absolutely not what I
wanted to do but I was so lucky that it
turns out there's many transferable
skills between being a diplomat and
working in Tech you need strong
communication skills you need strong
problem solving skills you need to be
adaptable you need to be a strategic
thinker and so I pivoted to the next
coolest thing which was technology I got
an internship in Microsoft when I was
much younger which was great that helped
me fall in love with with the idea of
tech I worked for an American company
for the very first time and I understood
the Ambitions the American companies
work with as well I then worked in
Google for four and a half years where
as part of the team that built the
licensing application and the goto
Market model for the Google Maps
platform at the time uh 12 apis that
needed to be turned into some form of a
monetization strategy which was a lot of
fun I got a lot of learning around her
product teams and go to market teams
interact and I got to see a go to market
team built from early Inception in a
very safe well funded environment um to
being a billion dollar business over for
four and a half years however two of my
older brothers are entrepreneurs and
they're my heroes and they're the people
I Look to to most in the world cuz
they're really Brave and I always felt
that I wanted to work for a smaller
organization where I could drive a high
level of impact so working in Tech
having some pretty good logos on my CV
early on and then wanting to drive
impact the all roads lead to early stage
startups um so I was really fortunate to
have been the first European hire three
times within Dropbox uh within assana
and within notion three very different
stories three very different Journeys
Dropbox um about uh $200 million to a
billion doll over four and a half years
about 200 employees up to about 2,000 by
the time my journey had finished the
story of a product that had Mass Market
appeal that was challenged by having a
strong consumer-based self-service model
to try to build a B2B model on top of
that a time where they were hiring
worldclass talent and trying to scale
teams exponentially across the world at
the time fast forward a little bit into
my time in a s I worked with an
incredible c a guy called Oliver J if
anyone's read the plg Trap that was his
work based off many learnings that we'd
had in in Dropbox we Tred to transfer
into aana a very different Journey a
very Niche category and a small problem
that a Founder was incredibly passionate
about that they wanted to bring to the
world s's viral growth story was
effectively bringing the power of
lightweight project management and task
management to the masses on the back of
the pration of lots of tools spinning up
within the workplace fast forward on to
notion then I was a huge product of
collaborative technology all the way
through my career and when I first got
my glams at notion around five years ago
I felt this is a product that could
genuinely change the world starting with
innovators and starting with disruptors
otion was about 10 million users when I
joined around four years ago and today
we're tipping around 100 million users
today the story and notion is a little
bit different as opposed to product L
growth or sales L growth I think this
chap to dat for notion has been
Community Le growth and that's something
that we're incredibly proud of uh at the
moment so very different
Journeys but I often think of scaling uh
a journey as a real relay race with one
team often handing the bat on on to the
next team who takes the company into the
next phase of
growth each time that I've been joining
an organization there's been some real
heroes who were there early the first
people on board the first engineering
team the first product team the first
Sal Heroes who they bring on board that
they're passing the Baton On to the Next
Generation as they come true who can
take the company to the next levels um
there's so many startups here in the
audience today that are on the first lap
of the track and I commend you more so
than anything else having worked in
notion for the time that I have and
knowing how popular notion is with early
stage organizations I've had the fortune
of spending a lot of time with Founders
and early leaders Within These companies
to learn what their aspirations and
dreams are how they think about strategy
and how they those strategies into
reality and have to say I've never been
on that first lap of the track so I'm
actually in awe of all of you um those
who have the braveness to set something
up some to take something from an idea
to a product to bring a product to
Market and to grow from
there I think when discussing what we
would what we'd present in terms of
content for this presentation today with
those companies that I've worked for
before you might get the sentiment that
there is a golden formula to make this
all work to make this all happen to
bring it to the next level but the fact
of the reality is that there isn't
really one there's no golden bullet
every company is a little bit different
every product is a bit different every
audience is quite different as well but
what I can teach you today hopefully is
just some learnings across three
different vectors that I found to be a
Common Thread to the companies that I've
worked with and my hope is that you're
able to take away some of these
learnings and bring it back to your
companies and I love to network as well
I'd love to connect with everybody here
afterwards and I'm happy to give more
advice on some of these on some of these
teachings and learning things as
well so the areas I'm going to be
talking about the scaling Journey fall
into three foundational
layers building your product building a
product that works building your goto
Market strategy and your operations as
well and as importantly as anything is
building Talent you need a great product
products need to work products need to
be needed you need a very clever
strategy you can have an awesome product
and have a poor strategy to bring it to
Market and mind work you could have a
great product and a pretty good strategy
but if you don't have the ability to
hire and grow and develop the best
talent then those things aren't going to
come together
either so let's start with the product
because that's at the core of absolutely
everything before thinking about your
sales motions or even your goto Market
motion you need to start with your
product Market
fit there's many paths to building a
product that really fits as well and the
most important thing thing that I need
to keep on board is that it's important
to build a
product that's a solution to a
problem there's many problems out there
and there's a lot of Founders here
who've thought about what are the
problems that they need to build a
solution for some of those problems are
mass they're scaled they're very obvious
some of those problems are mass and
scaled but they mightn't be that obvious
there are some problems that are very
specific and very Niche but I think
Founders and early teams will feel very
passionate that there's a solution
that's required for them as
well and then it's really important to
understand if that product big enough
that you can build a business around as
mentioned there there are some products
that are or some problems that are
relatively Niche and you might create
the most elegant solution to address
that issue but if the problem is not big
enough for you to be able to scale an
entire business around then it mightn't
go too far timing can be everything as
well when I look back to to to my time
and Dropbox it was very interesting
period oh actually not going the rise of
the iPhone and smartphones meant that
there was an exponential purifer in the
amount of user generated content that
was being produced users in the
workplace went from creating two or
three artifacts of work a PowerPoint
presentation a word doc or an Excel per
week to creating tens and 20s of them we
went from taking three to four photos
every month that were produced in hard
copy to producing hundreds of photos on
your iPhone or your smartphone and the
problem that was created there was where
does all this data go where does all
this information live companies were
struggling with databases with
mainframes phone companies were
struggling to understand where in the
cloud are they going to store all this
data and then Dropbox took an old way of
doing things file sync and share and
created an elegant cloud-based Simple
Solution started with a very user
specific use case
and then it grew into being a pretty
decent B Toc to be use case as well as
companies began to see that there's easy
ways that you can store and share this
information Dropbox had to build a
business model to support those
businesses uh who were leveraging what
was effectively a consumer
tool look at the s's use case as well
again the rise of tools in the workplace
the pration of SAS tools similar to what
we see here today meant that many
companies were seeing information silos
um the task of getting work done for
product teams for sales teams for
engineering teams became that little bit
more intricate as you're pulling
information from lots of different
sources uh Asana as I mentioned brought
project management to the masses by
producing a very simple elegant tool my
founder in ass Dustin mosit he's very
close to product he's effectively a
walking task list himself for any Assan
users that are there he just felt really
passionate that this very Niche way of
doing things creating task management
system system turning into a project
management system would be something
that would benefit the world at the
right time societal uh Society decided
that uh that there was a strong need for
that tooling as
well I think the most important part
when you're designing out and you're
building out your problem your product
when you're thinking of the problems
that you want to solve for when you're
thinking of the business model that
Sports those products is that customer
centricity and feedback loops and fast
iterations become incredibly important
as well if you're luy enough to found a
problem that's big enough to build a
business around and you put your first
iteration of your product in place I
think there's a very strong way that you
can put your users effectively on your
team this is why I think notion has done
a really good job excuse
me notion was a tool designed by a
designer and an engineer effectively for
themselves they spotted a gap in how
they were collaborating and how they
wanted to centralize all the data that
they were working on and they built a
really great tool to help them to help
them house and collaborate
together very quickly their first other
users were their friends were other
designers and other
Engineers um people who shared a similar
problem and very quickly it started the
first initial feedback loop so those
first friends of our Founders were the
ones who were initially saying now we
should do this how about we include a
toggle feature how we include a new a
new user inter face and very quickly
that started a process where Notions
Community to become became part of the
team we know that designers and
Engineering teams are incredibly
networked globally and very quickly
notion had this viral growth effect
where it became a most have tool for
designers and engineers and what was
most adored by that grouping was that as
soon as there was a suggestion on
something that could be changed or
iterated on that feedback loop went
really fast back to our Founders who
were able to make changes on the Fly
really well and I think that's always
been something as we've been scaling
that we've tried to keep as part of our
own process as
well the story of notion today might
necessarily be product L growth or sales
L growth in fact the chapter is really
oriented around community-led growth and
that's been the essence of the viral
growth model that Notions been able to
Grim on top of that as well our
community has become incredibly vibrant
and has grown into thousands and
thousands
worldwide your community can velop
Advocates people who are really
advocating for your product out there in
the market people who are advocating for
your brand and we look to nurture that
Community as much as possible we provide
Early Access to our Advocates and our
community members to notion we give them
direct access to engineering and our
product teams to provide direct feedback
we give them a three to four month
initial early run on our product before
we launch anything out to GA as
well I think there's a great story here
on this customer centricity on these
feedback loops and the fast iterations
that we experienced in the last year
alone in 2022 we introduced notion AI
just before chat GPT became widely known
and effectively changed the whole
Market when other companies were sharing
future Concepts and screenshots of what
might be possible notion had already to
use product that was out there in Alpha
in the market
but our quick launch required tradeoffs
and we learned a ton from those
trade-offs as
well based on our experience that our
customers should be helping create our
road map for us and that our community
should be very much a part on on how we
iterate our product quickly we made the
decision to launch super super fast our
AI
product knowing that getting our product
in the hands of users and customers
would create so much more feedback for
our engineers and our product teams to
iterate on the product versus
traditional methods of research and and
turnaround times and Cycles like that
but it had a huge tradeoff to it as
well in 2022 I don't think anyone really
knew what they were doing when it came
to AI people had a general concept of
what it could look like but everybody
was feeling in the dark across the board
I think many here will will know that
looks like as
well we didn't really have a goto Market
strategy around how we would sell AI how
we would position AI we didn't know how
we would position AI we didn't know what
messaging we would use we didn't have a
ton of evidence of what the business
value or a would be Beyond some general
intuition and I think where a lot of
companies have waited or wanted to
figure out exactly what that golden
message was to enable your sales team or
position your product we took the
decision to move
fast in this day and age when there is
groundbreaking new technology that gets
released being first or being early or
being fast it does make the
difference so we chose speed over
certainty and we launched quickly to
learn from real user feedback uh and we
learned to deal with those
trade-offs the next piece then that we
learned was it's really important to
listen to those customers when you're
moving fast and you're you're learning
on the Fly you hear a lot when you're
listening correctly and that allows you
to make changes as you need to make them
as
well when we launched we initially aimed
for 200,000 users that's what we were
aiming for but after 5 weeks we had a
million people on our weight list fast
forward another five weeks that had
grown to two million users on the weight
list already so you can imagine the
apprehension as we were Wai to launch
this when we two million people who are
ready to try the product which is
interesting and when we did release it
so much of it was unfinished so much of
it was underdone we were missing loads
of pieces and we got a lot of feedback
from those two million users who came
through we didn't even know what pricing
we were going to lever as well I don't
think anybody had figured that I
companies are still grappling this as
well I was part of the team that had an
early idea that we should create a
three- tier pricing system where we
would launch AI similar to a phone Cale
plan we'd have a very low barrier to
entry in make it really cheap but then
charge on a consumption model based on
how much people were Levering the tool
we thought it was a great idea we didn't
think anybody should be paying for AI if
they're not going to be using it so it
almost be like a sell plan however uh in
our first few months when this was
launched out we got a lot of feedback
from our community as well that people
are Levering AI in their tool they don't
want to be looking at how many credits
they have left they don't want to
necessarily feel like they've got some
time on the clock that they're going to
be using up with a little while and
ultim we found that pricing model was
going to be restrictive to usage we want
people to be tinkering with this tool we
want people to be playing around with
with AI but we found that our pricing
model actually was going to be stifling
and restricting Innovation versus versus
including more just a week before we
went GA on our AA product we totally
changed the pricing model and we went
for a monthly flat structure where we
can have all you can eat AI within the
tool versus the plan so that created
chaos and have a internally you can
imagine the fin plan teams and
everything going a bit crazy but it was
the right thing to do and it helped us
learn the
fly we also learned around how people
were going to be using our tool as well
we imagined that people would want to
let notion do the heavy work let the AI
product do the work so let notion take
your first spin at creating that draft
let notion take the first bin at writing
that blog for you and then you can
correct it afterwards we thought it
would be a huge productivity save for
companies for businesses who were
leveraging AI however what we found is
that in the early instances of oce of of
AI launches people were using it for
much more personalized use cases they
were writing poetry with notion AI they
were building personalized plans they
were sharing with their family and
friends they hadn't yet leared to lever
this tool within the workplace fast
forward a year and I think companies are
really only to figure out now what their
generative AI strategy needs to be and
how AI can be part of the core workflows
that they're developing as
well and so the last thing on this piece
I thought was relevant share in terms of
our product is we should never stop
learning if you get a great product you
bring it to Market that's only the
beginning you need to stay on your toes
all the time you need to make customer
centricity an incredibly integral part
of what you do you need to be able to
iterate and learn on the Fly and don't
be afraid to rip up the road map if you
get feedback in the wrong direction and
ultimately you should be creating if you
don't have one already some form of
strong feedback loop both informally you
should be been L on your Twitter feed
see what people are seeing about your
product you should be listening to your
users with your tickets that are coming
through where's the product broken
where's there consistently issues that
are coming through what are the people
who are not buying your product saying
how can you take information from your
sales team or from your marketing
website or why people are not buying
your product and then you should also be
listening to your really trusted
customers the people who are deep into
your product and can help you understand
what comes next what needs to come next
in order for you to retain them and to
grow them as as well and if you get that
balance right of those feedback points
then I think you're going to be in a
great position to continue to curate a
really strong
product moving forward then another key
learning from the product side is that
it's so important it might seem obvious
to align your goto Market strategy with
your
product a huge learning that I've
generated for my career most recently in
the last five or six years has been that
your your product strategy and your
go-to Market strategy must be incredibly
complimentary there can be a degree of
distance and a little bit of rub but the
tighter you can align your product
Vision with your marketing positioning
and ultimately your sales Focus the more
that you're going to be able to unlock
frictionless growth as well and there's
going to be some key tensions there the
three companies that I've been with have
been B to C Tob motions we are initially
trying to capture the hearts and mind of
end users hope that product perat within
teams within functions within divisions
and ultimately you're gearing up for a
conversation with your CTO type or your
heads of it who are going to be backing
your product or not and there's going to
be tensions there are you building the
product for end users or you building
the product for your CTO and your heads
of it do you put a product team on
making cool new features that are going
to delight and please your end users or
do you want to invest some engineering
resourcing on those really critical
security and administrative features
that are going to really please the ciso
at the end of the
day do you fuel your plg motion are you
driving for Revenue through self-service
because your whole marketing site your
whole brand is going to be slightly
different versus whether you're trying
to generate leads for your sales team in
a B2B motion I mean there's some
critical tensions there really strong
tensions that are really important to
understand and to lever I think the
companies that I've been part of it's
been a fun tension that's been there
again if we're pulling people to our
website are we trying to get them to
sign up to get into the product or are
we going to try and get them to have a a
value based conversation with our sales
team a little bit later on and
ultimately all those conversations and
tradeoffs lead to you being able to put
together a form of a product road map a
lot of that back and forth helps you
understand what you're going to be
building who you're building it for
what's the prioritization going to be of
those products as
well but you can get this
wrong if you're sales team is out of
whack with your product Vision if your
sales team is in full-on outbound
execution mode but your product team is
still trying to ascertain who are the
end users that you're trying to build a
product for that's when companies can
make mistakes I think that's when you
can overgrow an expensive sales of work
or you can have a product team that's
continuously Works moving in
circles so that's the major lesson on
the product side that I found incredibly
valuable how best can your leadership
ensure that your product vision is well
matched to where you're pointing your
guns from a sales perspective as
well so moving forward to go to
Marcus I think it's really important to
set very very strong foundational plan
as a business leader to ensure that your
goats Market has a degree of
clarity this became incredibly pertinent
to me during my time in assana where our
founder Justin muskovitz and our Sero at
the time Oliver J and our C Chris arachi
became very purposeful around something
that they called the Pyramid of clarity
so many people whove seen a paradigm
like this before you've probably written
something down to this effect or you
have some Doc that has a version of this
but I think one of my biggest learning
has been how to build a robust strategic
plan and it's not easy to do it's pretty
hard you need to be a really effective
leader to make this happen you need the
smarts to be able to build a really good
plan although if you use some AI
products now it goes it for you as well
little plug for for notion AI there too
um you need the hustle
and you need the Savvy to bring this
strategy and this plan to
life you also need the self-awareness
and the motivation and the Finesse and
the politics to communicate to a broad
group of stakeholders leadership middle
management IC groupings as well to keep
this strategy alive keep it surviving
and ultimately keep it thriving and keep
it
moving some really good advice that I
was given by another mentor of mine a
man called Johan buing Johan was my
leader in Dropbox and he subsequently L
slack after that he's he's a VC now he
could be around here somewhere was was
three things in communication be brief
be brilliant and be gone and get out of
there and if you're in a position then
to brilliantly briefly and GLE create a
very compelling vision and Mission that
everybody buys into you if you can then
underline that mission with a clear and
concise strategy not a generic one but
quite a concise
strategy if you can then tie your
companywide objectives into being quite
clearly articulating how you're going to
achieve that strategy and then
supplement those companywide objectives
with Department level objectives I think
many people here might use okos for
something like that and then you're
regularly communicating what are the key
results and the projects that are
progressing to help drive those business
objectives to help drive those company
objectives which ultimately is
influencing how your strategy is
performing not easy in the early stage
of a team in the early stage of an
organization these things can often be
muddled your business objectives might
be superseding your strategy your
mission mightn't be really clear to
everybody it mightn't be super inspiring
people might be be mixed up for where it
is your key results can be very hard to
measure but people might get overly
focused on one specific key result which
might be overweighted and balanced so
that's why there's a huge skill to your
leadership within your goto Market
organizations to being able to build a
very robust and a very clear strategic
plan let's dig into a little bit more
around the strategy piece as well so I
think once you've built a product you
have a go to market motion I found it
really important in my career to be very
clear around what the customer Journey
looks
like if you put your coo hats on at the
moment
if you're covering all your goto Market
functions from your marketing
organization through to your sales teams
through to your support and retention
teams as well and every mini team that
goes into those broad divisions your
brand your Communications your digital
marketing teams your community and
startups Focus teams in sales your sales
development teams your say you have a
new business team and say an account
management team say you have a customer
success team as well all the way through
to your CX teams as well well to your
support teams whether that's inex or
whether you're using external agencies
as well it's really important to
continue to map all of those functions
along what you're understanding to be
your classic customer Journey let's take
notion for an example we focus a lot on
ensuring that we have a very likable
brand um we think that notion is hit the
has hit a trend with or hit a nerve with
with many of our ICP with people who are
in disruptive fast moving companies
people who require less complication in
the workplace and more Simplicity with
an all-in-one work tool but very rarely
do we play to the CTO or to the CIO more
so than anything we want notion to be
incredibly valuable to users to
individual users to people who identify
with our brand we try to find ways all
the time to help people discover our
product we invest heavily in our
community we invest heavily in our brand
and we invest heavily in in influencers
that can help distribute notion to the
masses how do we measure that
successfully can we measure whether
people have a strong sentiment around
our product it's very debatable any
marketers here will always know that
conundrum can you measure your Market
impact can you measure the number of
tweets that you're getting can you
measure your Market sentiment we do keep
an eye on how many people are signing up
for our startups programs we keep a very
close eye on our collaborations with VCS
with incubators anywhere that there's
new businesses starting ultimately if
we're doing a really good job the top of
funnel with these pieces that should
naturally pull people towards our
websites right that should naturally
pull people towards where we're having
them land in our product so we measur
the amount of web sessions from there
your digital marketing team should be in
a good position to track people how
they're behaving what they're doing on
your website are they converting are
they converting into new users are they
converting into paid users are these
individuals are they smaller businesses
are they larger businesses what sort of
websites and web pages should you be
attracted them to when you grow a bit
bigger what do you do with French
customers what do you do with German
customers how can you ensure you're
optimizing that Journey so we work
pretty closely on knowing that there's a
very specific way that our customers
discover our product and we try to play
to that as much as we
can from there we look at what I call
the seeding motion as well so how do you
ensure that your early users once
they've once you spend a lot of money to
make them aware that your products exist
and pull them into the product how do
you ensure that they have a great
experience that they stay in there
anyone here who runs a self-service
business knows that you can lose
customers after the first two days if
they don't get good value for your
product almost immediately so it's
important that you have a very strong
ability for people to get into your
product your ux is cool it works um your
growth marketing team and your growth
product teams are ensuring that there's
stickiness in your product straight away
and ultimately that you're setting up
these new signups for better
monetization a little bit further down
the
line in Notions case that's our
self-service business that's how we
drive millions and millions of dollars
of Revenue in pulling people to a
product and making it really seamless
for them that's even before a human has
even touched them or has even spoken to
them this is where our sales teams comes
into play again A B to C to B motion our
sales teams really only work with
customers who are beginning to use
notion so seriously that they're going
to require a lot more handholding that
there's a much more Enterprise
requirement for the way that they're
leveraging the product so we call it our
land or new business sales we look to
attract customers that are spending over
a certain amount over to annualized
revenue from monthly Revenue as well and
it's here that we measured the ARR that
we're driving from our sales assist
business versus our selfservice business
and once you get your product over the
line to an annualized spend the battle
only starts there with a product like
nocean it can grow widly within an
organization or it can be kept in to a
small pocket of usage it's where our
account management team our expansion
Focus kicks into gear how do we
underline the value of the product as
it's been utilized within teams how do
we help build internal business cases to
justify that people should continue
spending on using your team um and
there's a strong combination there
between our customer experience teams
customer success and our sales team that
looking to expand within the accounts as
well and ultimately what you're looking
to measure there is how much utilization
how much adoption is happening in your
product and ultimately how many of your
customers you able to retain as well as
grow so you measure your seat you
measure your you measure your your usage
metrics too and that's just very
specific to this company that's just
very specific to how this product is
understood to how this product is
discovered to how it seeds within
organizations to how it lands to more
regularized revenue and ultimately to
how you retain and you expand your
customer base as
well so the last part I'll talk about in
the golden Trifecta of product go to
market and talent is the talent part and
this is the foundation layer that I
think you most need to get
right when sharing a advice for
hypergrowth companies I often times use
the Paradigm of Jedi and Stormtroopers
I'm a little bit nerdy I really like
Star Wars and I did when I was younger
anyway so this is one that always stuck
well to me and having hired hundreds of
people across the different
organizations that I was talking about
there it's become very clear to me that
there's different phases in the company
and in terms of Team maturity as well
and there's a lot of growth or a lot of
learnings that I've had from this growth
as
well I find that in the early days you
need your Jedis you need Builders people
who can Flex to cover many functions and
ultimately they set the DNA for your
team and ultimately your company these
Jedi are capable and they're curious
they can often times make something from
nothing and more so than anything they
enjoy the experience of doing that as
well they like to work in building sites
they really appreciate building as
they're doing things as well I've often
found that that smart people people
curious people can be your best sales
people by far they can outperform died
in the wall train sales people in any
case that being said Jedi can't stay in
the same place forever Jedi will want to
be building the next thing pretty soon
as soon as their structure and Order put
in place that they've often times built
themselves it's time for a new
generation or a new group of workers to
come in place as well and this is where
your Stormtroopers come in Storm
Troopers are great they're excellent
they don't NE necessarily want to do as
much Innovation as say your Jedi do but
I'll tell you what once you have a
structure in place for them they want to
go and they want to smash it they really
want to achieve and there's a balance
there in terms of timing you keep your
Jedi in a row too long they're going to
get bored they're going to start looking
for the next thing you put Storm
Troopers intoo early into an unru
environment and they're going to
struggle they're going to they're not
going to want to be able to fide a lot
of that Innovation so there's a balance
in terms of finding the next building
site for your Jedi and there's always
going to be a building site within your
company there's always a new team or a
new function or new way of doing things
that's going to need that Builder
mindset that you can push people towards
at the same time once you have your
structure well in place once you've got
a a decent Foundation to start from
that's when your storm shoers really
start to deliver give them a quot
they're going to want to hit 150% give
them a spiff they're going to want to
absolutely obliterate that and take that
home might be as as as motivating say
for your Jedis as
well the next piece I'll mention and it
can be a little bit of a cliche but I
found it to be
incredibly important as I've been
building our teams is to ensure that
you're hiring for
balance diversity comes in many
forms who you are and what your think
defines you and it's not just a tick the
Box metric to ensure that you're hiring
for balance it's a way to ensure that
you're setting your teams up for success
I think as a hiring manager as a leader
you should be looking at your bench you
should be looking at your people and you
should be seeing where you have
strengths and you should be seeing where
you have gaps you should be hiring
optimists and you should be hiring
realists you should be hiring pessimists
and you should be hiring dreamers as
well you should be hiring some really
onp paper books Mark people who come
with very strong credentials and you
should be hiring some hustlers you
should be hiring some people with real
Street smarts your intellectual people
are going to be able to spin up a
strategy dock really fast it's going to
be no problem to them they're going to
really enjoy the effort they might
struggle when it comes to a sales
conversation with a customer interaction
you might have some incredibly gifted
natural salesy people and they just
don't want to do that okay or that that
end of quter review because they're
going to be focused on different things
so it's really important that you're
hiring for teams that have a lot of
different a lot of different strengths
that complement each other you might get
Myers Briggs fans here you might get
insights fans you might get some other
hokey personality test I love them I
absolutely love them all I'm a red blue
on insights anyone can guess that I'm a
little bit spicy but I like to to
reflect on things I'm an Explorer and
investigator on the other study I can't
remember exactly what it is and I look
at my teams I look at my leaders and I
look at their teams and I ask them to
deliberately go and hire people that are
different to each other I have a great
experience in this my career when I was
early stage in Microsoft I worked in a
team that was just all Irish people and
it was great it was such a great place
to be what a great place to an
internship but I looked around me and
there was a lot of guys pretty much
everybody went to the same University
everybody played rugby and whenever a
problem came up we were thinking about
things in almost the exact same way and
I didn't notice it I didn't have a clue
I just thought we were going with the
flow is great it was only then when I
was switched teams or when I moved
company over on Google that I was in a
very International environment and I saw
that when a problem arose with the team
we had a very skeptical German who took
a very definitive line on stuff and a
very panata Italian who was thinking
about things in a very different way and
quite a realistic English person who was
who was coming at it from a very
different angle and you know what we
find the best solution cuz we had people
who were wired a little bit differently
who were thinking about a problem and
ultimately seeing all the potential
issues seeing all the potential
opportunities and able to navigate
through that it's not easy to do because
hiring is tough it's a very competitive
Talent Market at the moment but
ultimately if you try to instill into
your hiring practices this from the
beginning I think you're going to be
setting your teams up for Success
ultimately I think it's really important
for your leaders as well if you're a
leader yourself or you have a group of
leaders to ensure that they're threading
a growth mindset with teams all the time
I can't underline the importance of of
building a growth mindset particularly
in your early SAS teams a growth mindset
Fosters adaptability it Fosters
continuous Improvement teams are
embracing that mindset are much more
likely to innovate and to overcome
challenges than teams that fall out of
the cycle of having a growth mindset as
well I think being part of an early
stage team and an early stage
organization has trade-offs it can be
stressful the plan mightn't always be
there you're going to be burdened with a
lot more operational debt and strategic
debt than you would anywhere else
however that's an enormous blessing as
well I've always found that been part of
early teams has been really like having
a a street MBA I've learned so much
about marketing even though I'm not a
marketer by just having a strong level
of proximity to early marketing plans
I've learned a lot around product even
though I'm not a product person just by
having a lot proximity to how the
product team thinks and I think when
your people are coming on board to your
early stage teams it's such a privilege
preure is a privilege to have this
exposure to so many functions where you
could be in a bigger company you could
be a much bigger company and you're in
your little swim Lane and you just got
to execute on your you're a little
Stormtrooper you're going to execute on
your goals whereas you're in these early
stage teams you just get you get this
MBA effect by learning everything about
the business and contributing to your
part from it as
well I like to implement a 10% rule as
well with my leaders I like to ensure
sure that our leaders are spending at
least 10% of their time every month
dedicated to Learning and Development
programs for themselves and ultimately
for their teams if you're in a big
company you might have a really big L&D
budget you might be able to invest
hundreds of thousands of dollars in
sales methodology or trainers to come
into to work with their teams or you can
be in bootstrap startup where that 10%
can just be buying a book a month and
ensuring that everybody reads that book
and then creating space within that team
to share learnings from that book as
well I think it's really important that
from the outset the quicker you start
instilling this 10% rule of Learning and
Development and growth within your teams
it just compounds and it pays dividends
as time goes by and if managed correctly
you're able to thread your growth
mindset across functional learning
pieces with everybody's ongoing Learning
and Development as well so those pieces
are always super important to me so I
think I'm just a time before we run into
the Q&A just to sum it all up from my
end I think three foundational layers
that I can impart onto all of you
is from a product side building a
solution to a problem maintaining
customer centricity and feedback loops
aligning your goto Market strategy and
your
product from the goto Market side
building and communicating and strategic
plan such a vital skill don't don't let
that go by the wayside and then
understanding your customer journey and
aligning your sales and go to market
motions against them and then finally
your talent understand and be very
mindful around that early team that sets
the DNA hire for balance as quickly and
early as you possibly can to double down
on your strengths and cover off any gaps
that exist within your teams and then
finally to ensure that you're building
from the very outset a growth mindset
within your
teams thank you very much everybody
really appreciate it